Telemaco: Context-aware system for travel guiding based on web 3.0 technology.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The main aim of this project is the development of a context-aware system for travel guiding. The system allows individuals to create custom trips, supplies interesting information and helps planning trips. The system has two components: an Android application and a Django-powered server application.

The mobile application allows data to be available at all times without a permanent connection to the Internet, updating that information when possible. It uses geolocalization and it is integrated with other applications of the Android system. The mobile device displays the information depending on the user context. Context may be determined by the user physical location, its preferences or other information.

The system has an intermediate web server that connects to the Internet to get the information needed and offer it to the mobile application easily. This server downloads the tourist information from the Internet using Web 3.0 technologies. All this information is extracted from different services available all over the Internet, accessing through the download and analysis of an RDF resource, launching SPARQL queries or requests to certain API available. Some available Dbpedia services (http://www.dbpedia.org/) are used to achieve so, fetching information from open sources like Wikipedia.

The system fetches the user's profile from social networks. Context-aware information is provided by a rules engine. The rules engine applies some rules to infer new knoweldge, by matching the profile features fetched from the social network with the tourism information extracted by Dbpedia. Thus the system allows to provide place recommendations according to each user profile.


Telémaco: Sistema consciente del contexto para la guía en viajes basado en tecnología web 3.0
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

El objetivo general de este proyecto es el desarrollo de un sistema consciente del contexto para la guía en viajes. El sistema permite la creación de viajes personalizados, facilita información de interés y ayuda a planificar los viajes. El sistema se compone de dos componentes: una aplicación Android y una aplicación servidora impulsada por Django.

La aplicación móvil permite que los datos estén disponibles en todo momento. La aplicación cuenta con la información de los viajes sin necesidad de una conexión permanente a Internet, actualizando dicha información cuando sea posible. Se hace uso de la geolocalización de los dispositivos y está integrada con otras aplicaciones del sistema Android. El dispositivo móvil muestra la información dependiendo del contexto del usuario. El contexto puede venir determinado por la localización física del usuario, sus preferencias u otra información.

El sistema cuenta con un servidor web intermedio que se conecta a Internet para obtener la información necesaria y ofrecerla a la aplicación móvil de forma sencilla. Este servidor descarga de Internet la información turística mediante tecnologías Web 3.0. La información se extrae de diversos servicios disponibles en Internet, a los que se accede descargando y analizando el RDF de un recurso, lanzando consultas SPARQL o lanzando peticiones a ciertas APIs disponibles. Para ello se usan los servicios que proporciona Dbpedia (http://www.dbpedia.org), que obtiene la información de fuentes como Wikipedia.

El sistema extrae el perfil del usuario de redes sociales. Un motor de reglas proporciona información consciente del contexto. Este motor de reglas aplica las reglas para inferir nuevo conocimiento, relacionando las características del perfil obtenidas de la red social con la información turística extraída de Dbpedia. Así el sistema permite proporcionar recomendaciones de lugares en función del perfil de cada usuario.